to the foreign resident withholding regime, including introducing a requirement to notify the Commissioner for non-IARPI declarations related to transactions of $50 million or more; This was followed by the release in July 2024 of a Treasury consultation paper seeking further input from the Indirect interests in real property The CGT measures for foreign residents apply to both direct and indirect interests in Australian real property. The inclusion of indirect interests in real property is to ensure that foreign residents do not avoid Australia’s CGT tax rules by selling shares in companies whose assets are predominantly Australian real property. This is designed to prevent non-resident taxpayers avoiding Australian tax by disposing of indirect interests in real property. See International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 39 - *Lamesa Holding BV (1997) 36 ATR 589. An indirect real property interest exists when a foreign resident has a membership interest in an entity that passes two tests: the non-portfolio test (s 855-25(1)(a)) and the principal asset test (s 855-25(1)(b)). • The non-portfolio test is satisfied if a foreign resident and its associates have a 10% or greater direct participation interest in an entity, called the test entity (s 960-195). The term “associate” is defined in s 318 of the 1936 Act. The “direct participation interest” is the sum of the interests an entity holds directly in another entity (s 960-190 of the 1997 Act). The level of participation is determined by reference to a range of factors (s 960-190, items 1-3). • The principal asset test determines if an entity’s underlying value is principally attributable to Australian real property (s 855-30(1)). A membership interest that an entity (the holding entity) has in another entity (the test entity) satisfies the principal asset test if the total market value of the test entity’s “taxable Australian real property” exceeds the total market value of the entity’s assets that are “not taxable Australian real property” (s 855-30(2)). For example, assume that Company A (the holding entity), a foreign resident, holds 20% of the shares in Company B (the test entity), and that Company B’s assets are “taxable Australian real property” with a market value of $20m and “not taxable Australi an real property” with a market value of $1m. In this situation the principal asset test is satisfied as more than 50% of the test entity’s assets are taxable Australian real property. In applying the principal asset test the assets of the test entity are examined to determine the extent to which the value of its assets are either direct interests in Australian real property or indirect interests in Australian real property through membership interests in other entities. The assets of a test entity may be characterised as being one of three categories for the purposes of Div 855: • direct holdings of taxable Australian real property, • direct holdings of not taxable Australian real property, or • assets that are membership interests in other entities.