at least 50%. And according to the former analysis, we have Wealthy’s AICI is 55%, larger than 50%, therefore HK CoisaCFCunderthestrictcontroltestins340(a). We have proved it so there is no need to rely on the assumed or de facto control test. Besides, it is very worth noting that if we wrongly choose to use the method assumed control test for this question, we will unfortunately get a seemingly correct but wrong answer. Because assumed control test requires an Australian entity to own 40%ormoreofAICI,andthereisnoothergroupthatdoesnotincludethisentityand its associates to actually control a foreign company. In this entity, it is obvious that the actual control of this foreign company is in the hands of Loaded, which is a non-resident entity. There is no information from the existing statement expressing any association between Loaded and Wealthy. Therefore, if we use Assumed control test,eventhoughWealthy,asanAustralianentityhasclearlymorethan40%ofAICI, the foreign company still cannot become a CFC because it does not meet the second conditionof assumedcontroltest.And moreimportantly,oneofthethree tests, strict, assumed,defacto,issufficient.Soitdoesn’tmatteratallifoneofthemisnotmet. 3. Attributabletaxpayer Firstlywehavetoclarifythedescriptionofattributabletaxpayer,soanAustralian entity should be regarded as an attributable taxpayer where its AICI in the CFC is at least 10%. So, for wealthy, we have 55% which is obviously larger than 10%, thereforeWealthyisanattributabletaxpayerinrelationtoHKCo. AUSCOisnot. 4. Attributionpercentage Wealthy holds no indirect interest, so its attribution percentage is therefore its direct attribution interest. The direct attribution interest is generally calculated in the same manner as the direct control interest, using the maximum of the relevant rights. Thus,Wealthy’sattributionpercentage=55%. III. CaseII Wealthy holds 49% and Loaded holds 51% of the issued shares in HK Co. The shares all belong to the same class and carry equal rights. Wealthy and Loaded are each entitled to appoint 2 directors to the Board of HK Co; in the event of disagreementatboardmeetings,thevoteofWealthyprevails. So this is a very typical situation, its core point is to distinct that control interest can be regarded as 100% while we should look back to the actual economic equity whenwecalculateattributionpercentage. 1. Associate-inclusivecontrolinterest Wealthy owns 49% of the ordinary shares, all carrying equal rights. Ordinarily, hisdirect controlinterestwouldtherefore be49%.However,we noticedthatWealthy has the decisive vote power whenever the board is deadlocked. So we assert that Wealthy actually controls HK Co. According to this, and based on s350(6), if there’s a group of five or fewer entities actually controls a company, each member of that controlling group is DEEMED to have a 100% direct control interest. Obviously the term “five or fewer entities” includes just one person so we