patent law. Morgan made an interest-free loan of $1 million to ACo on 5 November 2018. The loan is to be repaid to Morgan on 10 June 2020. ACo deposited the funds with the ANZ Bank in Melbourne. Required: Advise Morgan on whether he would be liable for Australian taxation if he sold all his shares in HKCo to Lulu on 10 December 2019 assuming that, at that time: a) The value of the building was $15 million, the value of the patent was $14 million and the value of Morgan’s shares was $14.5 million. b) The value of the building was $15 million, the value of the patent was $15 million and the value of Morgan’s shares was $15 million. c) The value of the building was $10 million, the value of the patent was $8 million and the value of Morgan’s shares was $9 million. You should assume that: • the shares are neither trading stock nor held as part of a profit making scheme, • all amounts have been converted into Australian dollars using rates that would be acceptable for Australian tax purposes, and • the above values are accurate market valuations. Question 2 InvestorCo is incorporated in a country with which Australia does not have a tax treaty. InvestorCo carries on a business of buying and selling shares and options listed on various stock exchanges. InvestorCo has portfolio shareholdings in a diverse array of companies. The company regularly buys and sells shares and options listed on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX). It is the practice of the company to buy and sell the shares within a short period of time. InvestorCo has no office or staff in Australia. The company engages the services of an independent Australian stockbroker for the purpose of buying and selling the shares of Australian entities listed on the ASX. The stockbroker acts on the verbal instructions from one of the directors of the company located in a foreign country. All research into and decision on which shares to purchase and sell and when to do so are made by the same director of the company. Orders for the purchase or sale of shares are transmitted via the internet. On the acceptance of these orders, the contracts for the purchase or sale of the shares are subsequently issued by the broker. InvestorCo maintains funds in securities accounts in the Australia for the purpose of settling its trades. a) Are InvestorCo’s profits taxable in Australia? b) What would be the tax treatment of a specific investment by InvestorCo, in a stake of 20 per cent in an Australian exploration company, as a private equity investment?