ZHANG, Chengwei I. FactSituations Assume for each fact situation below that Wealthy is a resident Australian individual; Ausco is a resident Australian company; Loaded is a non-resident individual, who has no association with Wealthy or Ausco; and HK Co is a non-resident company incorporated and managed in Hong Kong. Also assume that eachfact situation belowis an independent or“stand-alone” fact situation: thatis, the factsandshareownershipstructuresinanyonefactsituationareNOTrelevanttoany other fact situation. Also assume that the shares in each company are ordinary shares withequalrightsunlessotherwisestated. II. Case1 In the current income year, Wealthy holds 10 A class shares in HK Co, and Loaded holds 90 B class shares. There are no other shares. Wealthy’s 10 A class shares give him the right to appoint one director; the right to receive in every year a fixeddividendof$1,000inprioritytoanydividendpaidontheBshares,plus10%of any further dividends paid by the company in any year; the right to have 25% of the votes at any general meeting on any normal issue, but 40% of the votes on any issue affecting the rights of the A class shares; and the right to receive 35% of any distributions on a winding-up of the company. Loaded’s 90 B class shares give him the right to appoint two directors; the right to receive, after the payment of the fixed dividend of $1,000 on the A shares, 90% of any further dividends paid by the company in any year; the right to have 75% of the votes at any general meeting on anynormalissue,but60%ofthevotesonanyissueaffectingtherightsoftheAclass shares; and the right to receive 65% of any distributions on a winding-up of the company. Assume the net profit available for distribution by dividend for the current incomeyearis$2,000. 1. associate-inclusivecontrolinterest There are no associates of Wealthy relevant to the facts, and Wealthy holds his interestdirectly.Accordingly,AICI=directcontrolinterest. Since we know that the net profit available for distribution by dividend for the current income year is $2,000 and Wealthy’s 10A class shares give it the right to receiveineveryyearafixeddividendof$1000inprioritytoanydividendpaidonthe Bshares,plus10%ofanyfurtherdividendspaidbythecompanyinanyyear. Unders350,thedirectcontrolinterestisthemaximumpercentageoftherelevant rights to share capital, decision-making / voting and distributions. Therefore, for wealthy,wehave: Dividendcalculation Therefore: Paid-upsharecapital 10% Votingrights 40% Distributiononwinding-up 35% Otherdistributions/dividends Max 55% Hence,Wealthy’sAICIinHKCo=55% AUSCO holds no interest and has no relevant associate interest, so AUSCO’s AICI=0%. Loadedisanon-residentandthereforeisnotarelevanttaxpayerforpart(a). 2. IsHKCoaCFC? Yes. Wealthy is an Australian 1% entity because its AICI is atleast 1%. A group may consist of one entity, and the strict control test is satisfied where a group of five or fewer Australian 1% entities has aggregated AICI of