will have an Australian source regardless of whether it has Australian source under normal source rules (see TR 2001/13); • See, also for example, Article 21 of the UK tax treaty and Article 27 of the US tax treaty. See e.g. *Satyam Computer Services [2018] FCFCA 172 concerning the Australia/India tax treaty, which addressed the interaction of the deemed source rule in Article 23(1) and a wider than usual definition of royalties. This decision confirmed the effectiveness of the deemed source rule for the purposes of the Assessment Act, pursuant to the operation of s 4(2) of the Agreements Act. In late 2022, the Government legislated to reverse the effect of the Satyam decision: refer Treasury Laws Amendment (Australia-India Economic Cooperation and Trade Agreement Implementation) Bill 2022. The amendment is narrowly targeted in that it only applies to amounts derived by Indian residents which are not royalties under s 6(1) of the 1936 Act but are royalties under Article 12(3)(g). In that case, the deemed source rule in Article 23(1) will not apply to such an amount (refer s 11J, International Tax Agreements Act). The Government also legislated a general statutory source rule where “the effect of the agreement is that the income, profits or gains may be taxed in Australia”, with the result that deemed source rules no longer need to be included in tax treaties: 1997 Act Div 764, which applies to treaties made on or after 28 March 2019. The International Tax Agreements Act itself also contains source rules to supplement or modify the operation of treaties. • s 3(11) deems beneficiary of a trust with a PE in Australia to also have a PE in Australia • s 3AA Source of income from funds management activities: which has the effect that the deemed source rule does not apply • Provisions such as s 11ZA relating to the Polish agreement: “The provisions of the Polish agreement do not have the effect of subjecting to Australian tax any interest or royalties paid by a resident of Australia to a resident of Poland that, apart from that agreement, would not be subject to Australian tax” 4.4 Capital gains tax, taxable Australian property and foreign residents While the operative provisions of the capital gains tax rules generally apply to both residents and non-residents, under Div 855, for CGT events happening on or after 12 December 2006, foreign residents are only subject to CGT for CGT events that happen in relation to CGT assets that are taxable Australian property (s 855 -10(1)). Foreign residents are exempt from Australian CGT for all CGT events that happen to CGT assets that are not taxable Australian property. The objects of Div 855 are to align Australia’s tax laws with international practice (s 855-5(2)(a)) and to ensure that interests in an entity, such as shares, remains subject to Australia capital gains tax laws if the entity’s underlying value is principally derived from Australian real property (s 855-5(2)(b)). “Taxable Australian property” for the purposes of Div