can say Wealthy’s direct controlinterestis100%. Then we discuss the AICI of Wealthy, so we cannot recognise any relevant associates on indirect interests so Wealthy’s AICI is 100%. As for the Australian Company,pitifully on the stated facts, Ausco has no direct or indirect controlinterest inHKCo.Besides,noassociaterelationshipbetweenAuscoandWealthyisspecified. Accordingly,ifnosuchassociaterelationshipisintended,Ausco'sAICIis0%. 2. IsHKCoaCFC? WealthyisanAustralian1%entityandobviously100%islargerthan50%sowe assertthatthissituationsatisfiesthestrictcontroltestins340(a).Inaddition,Wealthy actually controls HK Co, so we can get the same conclusion no matter we choose to use340(a)or340(c).Thus,HKCoisaCFC. 3. AttributableTaxpayer Wealthy is an Australian entity with an AICI of 100% which exceeds the 10% threshold,therefore,Wealthyisanattributabletaxpayer. 4. AttributionPercentage SoIthinkthisisthemostimportantpartofthiscasebecausewewillgetdifferent results from the control calculation we just discussed. The attribution percentage generally reflects, or we can say, close to the taxpayer’s actual direct and indirect attribution interests rather than the 100% control deeming used for control purposes. SoWealthyhasnodirectinterestandactuallyowns49%oftheequalordinaryshares. Therefore,Wealthy’sattributionpercentageissimplyequalto49%. IV. CaseIII HK Co has issued 100 shares carrying equal rights at $1.00 a share. The shares are held 35% by Wealthy and 65% by Loaded, pursuant to a joint venture agreement by which they agree to co-operate in the harmonious running of HK Co. Under the joint venture agreement, if a shareholder wishes to sell his shares to a third party, the shareholdermustfirstofferthemtotheothershareholderatthesamepriceasthethird partyiswillingtopay. Thekeypointofthisquestionistheentitledtoacquireins322. Forthebasefacts: 1. Associate-inclusivecontrolinterest Wealthy holds 35% of this issued shares and all with equal right so that Wealthy’s AICI is obviously 35%. There is a part of the right of first refusal in the question text, however, the right of fist refusal does not constitutes a contingent entitlement to acquire those shares before it is triggered by Loaded actually offering his shares for sale. TR 2002/3 treats such an untriggered pre-emptive right as a mere expectation rather than a present contingent entitlement. Accordingly, we cannot introducethe65%ofLoadedintoWealthy.Therefore,Wealthy’sAICIisstill35%. Australian Company has no control interest established on the stated facts, we assume that there’s no unmentioned association with Wealthy, so the AICI of AustralianCompanyis0%. 2. IsHKCoaCFC? Myanswerisno. According to the strict control, we have 35% is less than 50%. And even if we choose the assumed control test, we noticed that 35% is also less than 40%. Additionally, de facto control test also does not arise merely because Wealthy and Loaded agree to cooperate harmoniously so Loaded is expressly assumed not to be Wealthy’s associate and the facts also do not show that Wealthy actually controlling HKCo.Therefore,HKCoisnotaCFC. 3&4:WedonotneedtodofurtheranalysisbecauseHKCoisnotaCFC. (a)Would your answer change if each shareholder also has a put option against the other shareholder by which they can, on exercise of the