returns to Munich, Germany every month for 1 week, and works from home while there. Jo and children occasionally visits him in Australia . On 1 May 2020 Ted won first prize in a lottery, a lounge worth $5000 (delivered to his home in Munich). Ted had been entered into the lottery draw automatically because he renewed his annual membership of ‘Mining Germany’ by the membership renewal date. Mining Germany is a not for profit mining advocacy group. In Ted’s line of work, it is crucial that he maintain this membership. The prize was offered by Mining Germany in its efforts to attract new members and also to retain existing members. a) Advise Ted whether he is an ‘Australian resident’ for the years ended 30 June 2020 and 2021. b) What is the effect of the Australia/Germany tax treaty, if any? Question 3 Ms Frieda Footsley (Frieda) is an Australian citizen. Frieda was born in New Zealand but moved to Melbourne with her parents when she was three years old. Frieda grew up in Melbourne where she studied to be a geotechnical engineer. Frieda worked for the last few years for an engineering firm, AusEng Pty Ltd ( AusEng), an Australian International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 32 - subsidiary of the global group GlobalEng, which is headquartered in The Netherlands. Frieda’s work is mainly based in Melbourne, but she leads engineering projects for AusEng around the world. On 1 July 2018, Frieda signed a new 5 year employment contract with AusEng. On 1 March 2020, Frieda travelled overseas to Bahrain to lead a new AusEng project. Frieda lived in Bahrain in a serviced apartment provided by AusEng and worked on the project site there. On 15 June 2020, Frieda returned to Australia for two weeks. She then agreed to return to Bahrain and be based there for another 9 months until completion of the project. Frieda returned to Bahrain on 1 July 2020 where she lived in a different serviced apartment. After 9 months, the Bahrain project was complete and Frieda was due to return to Australia. However, Frieda changed her plans because she met the love of her life, a German engineer, while she was overseas. Frieda is excited about her new relationship and life she is planning overseas. On 15 April 2021 Frieda resigned from AusEng by sending an apologetic text to the chief executive of the firm in Melbourne. Two weeks later, Frieda moved to Germany to live with her new partner and they were married there on 1 June 2021. Later that month, Frieda organised to lease out her Melbourne home (which had been vacant). Frieda is planning to set up an engineering consultancy business when she is settled in Germany. Advise Frieda about whether she is a resident of Australia in each of the relevant years. To the extent relevant, you may consider the Australia/Germany tax treaty. Question 4 Blue Ltd is a