Law School - 34 - has no family or friends. On 2 January he left New York and arrived in Australia on 3 January to do six months work for Big Mining Co in Western Victoria searching for gold deposits. He entered into a contract to provide his services as an independent contractor to Big Mining Co at a fee of AUD $10,000 per week. The contract requires Big Mining Co to set aside for him, at its head office in Melbourne, a small office with desk and computer, and to provide him with an email account. He arrived in Australia with a backpack and portable tent. He spent his first night in Australia at the airport hotel, and has since lived in a portable tent moving around different parts of Victoria looking for gold. He had originally intended to return home on 3 July this year, but has decided to stay on for a further six months, and will leave on 24 December. Mr Flynn is also an international distribution agent for Uncle Sam Compasses Inc, a famous manufacturer of compasses which trades under the slogan “Get one of our compasses or get lost”. Mr Flynn carries about 50 of the compasses in his back-pack and sells them as agent of Uncle Sam to fellow gold prospectors and other bushwalkers he encounters in his travels. He sells the compasses for cash, discloses to the purchasers that he is agent and that they are covered by Uncle Sam’s warranty, and regularly remits the sale proceeds (less a 5% commission) to Uncle Sam’s New York bank account by telegraphic transfer from country banks. a) Will Mr Flynn’s income be subject to Australian income tax? b) Will Uncle Sam’s income be subject to Australian income tax? c) Has Mr Flynn become an Australian tax resident? d) Has Mr Flynn or Uncle Sam acquired a permanent establishment in Australia? International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 35 - TOPIC 4. Source Like the concept of residence, the concept of ‘source’ is fundamental to Australian international income tax law. In particular, for a non-resident, the liability to Australian tax on assessable income will generally depend on whether or not the income has a source in Australia. 4.1 General concept of source The meaning of source in relation to income is derived in part from case law: the basic rule adopted is that the question of source is a ‘practical, hard matter of fact’, being the famous phrase from the judgment of Isaacs J in Nathan v FCT (1918) 25 CLR 183. Courts will look to matters of substance without undue regard for matters of form in determining source. Relevant factors may include the location of any property used in generating the income, the place of performance of any work or services relevant to generating the income, the place of negotiation, execution and performance of any contracts involved in deriving the income, the place of