company incorporated in the United Kingdom. One half of the issued shares in Blue Ltd are owned by Mr De Beer, a resident of the UK who lives in London, and one half are owned by Mr Sleigh, a resident of Australia who has also lived in London for the last 18 months. Mr De Beer and Mr Sleigh are not associates. The main business of Blue Ltd is a diamond mine in Western Australia. The company’s head office is located at the diamond mine. The directors of Blue Ltd are Mr De Beer, Mr Sleigh and Ms Pink. Under the constitution of Blue Ltd, each director has one vote at board meetings, all decisions must be unanimous, and all board meetings must be held in the United Kingdom. Ms Pink is an Australian resident. She is also chief executive officer of Blue Ltd and lives and works at the diamond mine. Blue Ltd holds two formal board meetings each year at a luxury hotel in London. All 3 directors attend and pass resolutions approving the annual accounts and the annual dividend, and formally ratifying any transactions undertaken by the company since the last board meeting which it is considered prudent that the board formally confirm. The resolutions are all drafted by Ms Pink at the head office of the diamond mine, and invariably passed in the form he has drafted them. Ms Pink has full control of all day to day business operations of the company. In practice he often has international telephone conference calls with Mr Sleigh and Mr De Beer to discuss the company’s business operations. In the course of these phone calls they discuss various matters, such as new mining projects, the financing of the company, the structure of overseas operations, the employment of key staff and accounting policies. Ms Pink often records a summary of these discussions in a journal kept at the head office which is labelled “Executive Minutes” and sends copies of the summaries to Mr De Beer and Mr Sleigh. All the company’s financial records and corporate records are held at the company’s head office, and a copy is held at the office of the company’s solicitors in London. The company has no office in London. Provide advice on the residency status of Blue Ltd for the year ended 30 June 2025. If it is a non-resident, does it have a permanent establishment in Australia? International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 33 - Question 5 For the purposes of Parts 1 and 2: Hardware Pty Ltd (“Hardware”) is a company incorporated in Singapore. It has two equal shareholders - Singapore Hardware Pty Ltd (a company wholly owned by individuals resident in Singapore) and Australian Hardware Pty Ltd (a company wholly owned by individuals resident in Australia). Part 1 The Board of Directors of Hardware consists of five members: two appointed by Australian Hardware who are residents of Australia, two appointed by