a CGT event that happens to a CGT asset that is not “taxable Australian property”. Section 855-40 operates to disregard certain capital gains made in respect of a fixed trust. Consider the application of these rules where there is a trust holding assets, and making a capital gain, instead of an individual or a company: TD 2019/D6, TD 2019/D7 • *Greensill (Peter Greensill Family Co Pty Ltd (trustee) v FCT [2020] FCA 559 Foreign resident capital gains tax withholding regime A 12.5 per cent non-final withholding obligation is imposed (Subdivision 14 -D Capital proceeds involving foreign residents and taxable Australian property of the Taxation Administration Act 1953) on the purchasers of taxable Australian assets if the buyers acquires the assets from foreign residents. The Explanatory Memorandum to the Tax and Superannuation Law Amendment Act (2015 Measures No. 6) Act 2016 provides the following summary of the measures: “The obligation does not require withholding as such, but does require the purchaser to pay 10 per cent [increased to 12.5 per cent in 2017] of the first element of the cost base (usually, the purchase price) to the Commissioner. This amount may be withheld from the payment the purchaser makes to the vendor. The obligation will apply to the acquisition of an asset that is: • TARP; • an indirect Australian real property interest; or • an option or right to acquire such property or such an interest. To minimise the compliance costs that arise from these amendments, no obligation is imposed in any of the following situations: • transactions involving TARP and certain indirect Australian real property interests, valued less than $2 million [reduced to $750,000 in 2017]; • a transaction that is conducted through a stock exchange or a crossing system; • an arrangement that is already subject to an existing withholding obligation; • a securities lending arrangement; or • transactions involving vendors who are subject to formal insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings. In addition, no obligation is imposed in any of the following situations: • in the case of TARP and certain indirect Australian real property interests, where the vendor obtains a clearance certificate from the Commissioner; or • in the case of other types of property covered by the amendments: - where the vendor has made a declaration that they are an Australian resident for income tax purposes; or - where, if the CGT asset acquired is a membership interest, the vendor has made a declaration that the interest is not an indirect Australian real property interest. International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 41 - The vendor declarations only exempt a specific vendor and withholding may still apply if the transaction involves multiple vendors.” As part of the 2023–24 Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook, the government announced a measure to increase the integrity of the foreign resident capital gains withholding (FRCGW) regime. Refer below. Reading for Topic 4 Legislation 1997 Act s 6-5, 6-10; Div 764; Div 842;