Singapore Hardware who are residents of Singapore, and the chair (who has a casting vote in the case of a deadlock) appointed by Australian Hardware who is a resident of Australia. Hardware carries on its operations in Australia and all board meetings are held in Australia. Hardware’s main operations involve the leasing of computer hardware to Australian customers. Hardware also holds a portfolio of investment assets, including shares in Australian and Singaporean publicly listed companies and interest bearing securities issued by Australian resident financial institutions. On 1 January of this year, Australian Hardware sold 50% of its shares in Hardware to Singapore Hardware. Two of the Australian directors (including the chair) stood down and were replaced by directors appointed by Singapore Hardware being residents of Singapore. After the transfer of the shares, Hardware began shutting down its Australian activities, although existing leases were honoured. At the end of those leases it is intended to sell or scrap the leased equipment. Hardware is also considering disposing of its portfolio of assets; some disposals will realise a gain and others a loss. 1. Advise Hardware on the Australian tax consequences of the above facts. Part 2 2. Assume the Board of Directors of Hardware consists of four members, being two appointed by Australian Hardware who are residents of Australia, and two appointed by Singapore Hardware who are residents of Singapore, that all decisions have to be by majority vote, and that Hardware carries on all its business operations in Australia. What would be the tax residence of Hardware Pty Ltd if: • The board had four meetings a year, two in Australia and two in Singapore? • Alternatively, the board conducted all its meetings by telephone, with the Australian directors speaking from Australia and the Singapore directors from Singapore? • Alternatively, the board has no meetings, the Australian directors take no part in the running of the company, and the Singapore directors send instructions to the Australian managers of the business by telephone, email and fax? Part 3 3. Hardware is part of a very large global conglomerate multinational enterprise. Hardware ensures its leasing agreements are marketed and supported in Australia through a related company in the MNE group, which specialises in marketing. However, all leasing agreements are actually made with Hardware Pte in Hong Kong. Hardware Pty itself pays a royalty to another subsidiary in the MNE, located in Bermuda, which holds all of the intellectual property of the group. What are the potential tax consequences of this structure in Australia? Question 6 Mr Flynn was born in the United States of parents who were US citizens and is himself a US citizen. Until 1 January of this year he had lived and worked all his life in the US. He owns an apartment in New York. He is a mining geologist and conducts a business of providing exploration services to mining companies in the US. He International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne