(1943) 68 CLR 525; *Sherrit Gordon Mines (1977) 137 CLR 612. • The source of income from a lease of movable property is prima facie where the lease contract made: James Fenwick & Co (1921) 29 CLR 164. • The source of gains or profits from the sale of shares in an Australian company may be Australia, even if residence is overseas, as evidenced by the recent case of *Resource Capital Fund IV LP [2019] FCAFC 51 (RCF IV) and see TD 2011/24. Note the exemption for certain Investment Managers in Subdiv 842-I of the 1997 Act, directed at foreign residents deriving investment or financial income, or capital gains, sourced in Australia, if it is foreign widely held fund investment and Australian fund managers are used, under various conditions. 4.2 Statutory source rules The general ‘practical, hard matter of fact’ approach to source of income is replaced or supplemented by express statutory source rules in some cases: • s 44 deems dividends paid by a company out of Australian source profits to be Australian source income. • s 6C deems Australian source for royalties paid by an Australian resident or Australian PE of non- resident (but now replaced by royalty WHT); • s 6CA deems Australian source for payments of income calculated by reference to value or quantity of mineral resources recovered in Australia. 4.3 Tax treaties and source rules Tax treaties may allocate exclusive taxation rights over particular types of income to the country of the non - resident, so in the case of a non-resident deriving business profits from Australia, Australia cannot tax even if the income is sourced in Australia: • business profits cannot be taxed unless they are attributable to a permanent establishment in Australia; • Consider Article 7 of the Germany tax treaty. In other cases, tax treaties allocate sole or shared taxing rights to Australia over particular types of income . Where tax treaties allocate a taxing right over income to Australia, the tax treaty may also stipulate that it is a right to tax only at a limited rate (e.g. dividends, interest and royalties), so the income tax payable in Australia is reduced. Australia’s treaty practice has been to include a deemed source rule in its tax treaties to deem certain income to have a source in Australia for Australian tax purposes • For example, Article 23(1) of the Indian treaty is as follows: “23(1) Income, profits or gains derived by a resident of one of the Contracting States which, under any one or more of Articles 6 to 8, Articles 10 to 20 and Article 22 may be taxed in the other Contracting State, shall for the purposes of the law of that other State relating to its tax be deemed to be income from sources in that other State”. International Tax: Principles and Structure LAWS70006 Semester 2, 2026 Subject Outline University of Melbourne Law School - 37 - • The ATO considers that where this deemed source rule applies, the income